doc(website): Add Google Cloud VM Deployment Tutorial (#11434)
cloudquery/cloudquery: website/pages/docs/deployment/google-cloud-vm.mdx

</Callout>

## Step 6: Add IAM roles

1. Click on the hamburger menu in the top left corner and select **IAM & Admin**.
2. Click on **IAM**.
3. Find the service principal that is running your VM instance. You can find this information on the VM details page: it will typically be in the format `123456789012-compute@developer.gserviceaccount.com`
4. Click **Edit principal** (the pencil icon) next to the service account.
5. Add the following roles to the service account that is running your VM instance.
  * **Viewer**: This will allow the GCP plugin to read GCP resources from your projects
  * **Browser**: This is necessary to allow the GCP plugin to list all projects in your account
   These permissions assume you are using the GCP source plugin, it may be too broad for your use case or for other plugins. Following the principle of least privilege, you should make the scope as small as possible for your needs.

## Step 7: Run a Sync

1. Back in the SSH session connected to the VM instance, run the following command to start the sync:

   ```bash copy
   ./cloudquery sync config.yaml
   ```

> 2. Hopefully, you should see a successful sync! If not, check `cloudquery.log` for errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You should see a successful sync! If not, check `cloudquery.log` for errors.
```

</Callout>

## Step 8: Query the data

We can now query the data in our database. We will use the Cloud SQL interface on the Google Cloud console, but you can also use any other tool that supports PostgreSQL.

1. Click on the hamburger menu in the top left corner and select **SQL**.
2. Click on your database.
3. Click on **Open Cloud Shell**.
4. Edit the command if necessary, then press enter to execute it in the cloud shell.
5. Run any SQL query you wish. For example, the following query lists all the storage buckets in your GCP account:

```sql copy
SELECT * FROM gcp_storage_buckets;
```

## Step 9: Set up a cron schedule

### Option 1: Basic cron schedule

Now that we have a working sync, we can set up a cron schedule to run it automatically.

1. SSH into your instance. You can do this by clicking on the SSH button next to your instance in the Google Cloud Console.
2. Run the following command to open the crontab editor:

```bash copy
crontab -e
```

3. Add the following line to the crontab file, replacing the path with the path to your CloudQuery binary and config file:

```bash copy
0 1 * * * /path/to/cloudquery sync /path/to/config.yaml
```

> 4. Save the file and exit the editor. The sync will now run every day at 1am.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Save the file and exit the editor. The sync will now run every day at 1 a.m.
```
